#### Example 1.1.1 Writing Sentences Using Variables

Use variables to rewrite the following sentences more formally.

a. Are there numbers with the property that the sum of their squares equals the square of their sum ?

Solution
Are there numbers a and b with the property that $a^2 + b^2 = (a + b)^2?$
Or: Are there numbers a and b such that $a^2 + b^2 = (a + b)^2?$
Or: Do there exist any numbers a and b such that $a^2 + b^2 = (a + b)^2?$

b. Given any real number, its square is nonnegative

Solution
Or: For any real number $r,r^2$ is nonnegative
Or: For any real number $r,r^2 \geq 0$
Or: For all real numbers $r, r^2 \geq 0$

#### Example 1.1.2 Rewriting a Universal Conditional Statement

For all real numbers $x$, if $x$ is nonzero then $x^2$ is positive
a. If a real number is nonzero, then its square is positive
b. For all nonzero real numbers $x^2$ is positive
c. if X is a nonzero real number then $x^2$ is positive
d. The square of any nonzero real number is positive.
e. All nonzero real numbers have positive squares (or: squares that are positive)

#### Example 1.1.3 Rewriting a Universal Existential Statement

Fill in the blanks to rewrite the following statement: Every pot has a lid
a. All pots has a lid
b. For all pots $P$, there is a lid
c. For all pots $P$, there is a lid $L$ such that $L$ is a lid for $P$

#### 1.1.4 Rewriting an Existential Universal Statement

Fill in the blanks to rewrite the following statement in three different ways

There is a person in my class who is at least as old as every person in my class.
a. Some person in my class is at least as old as every one else in my class
b. There is a person $p$ in my class such that $p$ is at least as old as every person in my class
c. There is a person $p$ in my class with a property that for every person $q$ in my class. $p$ is at least old as $q$.

#### Exercise Set 1.1

In each of 1-6 fill in the blanks using a variable or variables to rewrite the given statement

<ol>
    <li>Is there a real number whose square is -1 ?</li>
    <ul>
        <li> a. Is there a real number $x$ such that $x^2 = -1$</li>
        <li>b. Does there exist x such that $x^2 = -1$</li>
    </ul>
    <li>Is there an integer that has a remainder of 2 when it is divided by 5 and a remainder of 3 when it is divided by 6?</li>
    <ul>
        <li>a. Is there in integer $n$ such that $n$ has remainder of 2 when it is divided by 5 and a remainder of 3 when it is divided by 6</li>
        <li>b. Does there exist an integer $n$ such that if $n$ is divided by 5 the remainder is 2 and if $n$ divided by 6 remainder of 3</li>
    </ul>
    <li>Given any two real numbers, there is a real number in between.</li>
    <ul>
        <li>a. Given any two real numbers $a$ and $b$, there is a real number $c$ such that $c$ is between $a$ and $b$</li>
        <li>b. For any two real numbers $a$,$b$ there exists a real number $c$ $a < c < b$</li>
    </ul>
    <li>Given any real number, there is a real number that is greater.</li>
    <ul>
        <li>a. Given any real number $r$, there is number $s$ such that $s$ is greater than $r$.</li>
        <li>b. For any real number $r$, there exists a real number $s$ such that $s > r$</li>
    </ul>
    <li>The reciprocal of any positive real number is positive.</li>
    <ul>
        <li>Given any positive real number $r$, the reciprocal of $r$ is also positive.</li>
        <li>For any real number $r$, if r is positive, then its reciprocal is also positive.</li>
        <li>If a real number $r$ is positive, then its reciprocal is also positive.</li>
    </ul>
    <li>The cube root of any negative real number is negative</li>
    <ul>
        <li>a. Given any negative real number $s$, the cube root of $s$ is also negative</li>
        <li>b. For any real number $s$, if $s$ is negative, then its cube root is also negative / $s^3 = -n$</li>
        <li>c. If a real number $s$ is negative, then  its cube root ($s^3$) is also  is negative
</li>
    </ul>
    <li>Rewrite the following statements less formally, without using variables. Determine, as best as you can, whether the statements are true or false</li>
    <ul>
    <li>a. There are real numbers $u$ and $v$ with the property that $u + v < u - v$</li>
        <ul>
            <li>There are real numbers $u$ and $v$ with the property that sum of $u$ and $v$ is less than difference of the $u$ and $v$.</li>
            <li>the statement is false because sum of two numbers always be greater than the difference of same two numbers</li>
        </ul>
    <li>b. There is a real number $x$ such that $x2 < x$.</li>
        <ul>
            <li>There is a number such that when you square it, the result is less than the original number. this statement is true (0 and 1)</li>
        </ul>
    <li>c. For all positive integers $n, n2 \geq n$<li>
        <ul>
            <li>The square of any positive integer is always greater than or equal to the integer itself. this statement is true because squaring a positive integer will always result in a number that is greater than or equal to the original number</li>
        </ul>
    <li>d. For all real numbers a and b, |a + b| ≤ |a| + |b|</li>
        <ul>
            <li>The absolute value of sum of any two real numbers is always less than or equal to the sum of their absolute values. This statement is true and its known as the triangle inequality in mathematics</li>
        </ul>
</ul>
<li>For all objects $J$, if $J$ is a square then $J$ has four sides</li>
<ul>
    <li>a. All squares that are $J$,  it has four sides</li>
    <li>b. Every square object that are $J$, then $J$ has four sides</li>
    <li>c. If an object is square, then it has four sides if object square is $J$</li>
    <li>d. If $J$ is object then $J^2$ has four sides</li>
    <li>e. For all squares J, $J$ has four sides</li>
</ul>

<li>For all equations $E$, if $E$ is quadratic then $E$ has at most two real solutions.
a. All quadratic equations have at most two real solutions.</li>
<ul>
    <li>b. Every quadratic equation has at most two real solutions.</li>
    <li>c. If an equation is quadratic, then it has at most two real solutions.</li>
    <li>d. if $E$ is a quadratic equation, then $E$ has at most two real solutions. e. for all quadratic equations $E, E$ has at most two real solutions.</li>
</ul>
<li>Every nonzero real number has a reciprocal</li>
<ul>
    <li>a. All nonzero real numbers have a reciprocal</li>
    <li>b. For all nonzero real numbers $r$, there is reciprocal for $r$.</li>
    <li>c. For all nonzero real number $r$, there is a real number $s$ such that $\frac{s}{r}$</li>
</ul>
<li>Every positive number has positive square root.</li>
<ul>
    <li>a. All positive numbers have a positive square root.</li>
    <li>b. For any positive number $e$, there is an positive square root for $e$</li>
    <li>c. For all positive numbers $e$, there is a positive number $r$ such that $r = \sqrt{e}$</li>
</ul>
<li>There is a real number whose product with every number leaves the number unchanged</li>
<ul>
    <li>a. Some real number has the property that its product with every real number leaves the number unchanged.</li>
    <li>b. There is a real number $r$ such that the product of $r$ and any real number equals that real number.</li>
    <li>c. There is a real number $r$ referred to is $1$, because $1$ times any real number $b$ equals $b$. This is a fundamental property of numbers in mathematics.
</li>
</ul>
<li>There is a real number whose product with every real number equals zero.</li>
<ul>
    <li>a. Some real number has the property that its product with every real number equals zero.</li>
    <li>b. There is a real number $a$ such that the product of $a$ and any real number equals zero.</li>
    <li>c. There is a real number $a$ with the property that for every real number $b$, $a*b=0$</li>
</ul>
</ol>
